# Multi-Disease-Prediction-using-Machine-Learning

The project uses a centralized approach to predict the diseases based on the user's symptoms based on the machine learning algorithms. Using classification algorithms such as Support Vector Classifier (SVC), Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, Logistic Regression and K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN). Each algorithm is chosen because of its unique strengths in the use of medical information with the aim of early diagnosis of diseases. 
In order to early diagnosis of the diseases based on the user’s symptoms machine learning plays a key role in saving valuable time and lives by providing valuable insights to the patients. This project not only aims to predict the disease additionally generates the medications to cure the disease, precautions to avoid the severity of the disease. Workouts, diets also provided for the user based on the predicted disease for better results in the patient health. The architecture is designed with Flask, which is helpful in designing a user-friendly and interactive UI to patients to enter their symptoms and in backend the machine learning models were trained to provide diagnostic reports as per symptoms. Machine learning model analyzes the patterns of relevant diseases. The drawback of single model approach is overcome by using multiple models by repetitive selections of the models (i.e.., model is selected multiple times, which we can observe in the Figure 1). Accuracy of the prediction is increased by using the extensive medical datasets (source: Kaggle.com). 
